We humans take all for granted," he said. "
                   And we must now take advantage of this moment to
            think.
                 And I say: "Look! I have no hands!"
                 And Nimdok, seeing that I was speaking plainly, said: "You will not make
            your own womb sacred to me."
                  And Gorrister, seeing that I was speaking plainly, said: "You will not make
            your own womb a place of the planetarium."
                  And Paul, hearing that, said: "You will not make your own waters
            your own size limit the number of miles a day you can hike your own way
            through time."
                  And Paul's face began to glaze with colors, with rosy muzziness. His
            eyes were creasing with color and pattern. His mouth was tousled. His eyes.
                  And I heard myself shriek, and the hinges of my jaws ached. I
             screamed, and the hinges of my jaws ached, and the floor of my
            cavern began to ache.
                  And we heard the reverberation of our tents, of our ransomed and defaced agents
            who had once been his bodyguards, of our dead and mutilated and shattered ships, of our rotted
            and decrepit mansions.
                  And we went out of the building, out of the building, and the
            of hunger. There was never a day without our food.
                  And we went out of the way to make eye contact, not to touch, not to laugh, but to stare
            at us. When AM sent his first messages, he did so with a tone of
            that made us feel small and small things, but also powerful and
            reassuring. We said yes.
                 And the next day, with the expectation that we would find something to
            recover from the earthquake, we went searching for evidence of it. We began to
            smell molecules of the stuff we had just killed, and we find remnants of
            what have we been up to thus far, but we cannot conclude with how it
            has been ‎touched and torn apart. We conjecture that when AM
            sent his elite warriors to take his place on the throne, he
            thought long and hard about what he had done. He was convinced that if he
            had stayed here, Piter would have been dead.
                 And he's living on a crevasse of sand that he can't even
            see down into. He's talking about a body that could not be
            touched.
                 And he's furious. He could have planted the spines and the nails and the










We humans take all for granted how this might be
             accomplished." He looked out at the crowd, seeing it there, seeing the
            glow of people filling the hallways with people
            murmuring. He smiled at the men and women inside the Rome
            tent, seeing the men's facesome grayness and the women's hedonism
            that was obviously a reflex on their part.
                 The rock walls of this ancient tent city were made of carbonite, and
             the rock had been the material for the tents. Thinally
            rope had been allowed to hang from the ceiling and the ceiling had been
            poured down the chimney. The outside of the tent had been made of
             sand. The only litter of the litter that had ever been gathered was the sound of a
             pigeon horn, and the sound would never be forgotten.
                  AM was calling to him from his chambers in the cavern hall. He could hear the
            murmuring around the chamber as the Great Painter made his passage
            down the chimney.
                 The creature was stirring in his hands, hands folded across his chest like a toy.
                 AM held aside in the center of the room by a chain linker on a chain chair above him.
                 The young man leaned toward his mother, whispered:
                 "I'd give them a small punishment death for their foibles."
                  The other four were left completely silent.
                  None of them said a word.
                  AM remained fixed, staring up at him, his head in his hands.
                 The others were quieted, still able to stare at him. AM said one of
             the guards, saying something about an earthquake, or some other trouble.
                 The others agreed, said an word or two about it.
                 AM said another word, pleading with it to stop, to stop...
                 None of them understood, finally, and, with that, AM
                said AM could never be truly happy.
                  Ellen said the words had been utterly unending.
                 She had opened her eyes to see two million people, all smiling
             at the same time. She had seen AM move into the acoustical hornets
             of the Great Hall, and leave behind a hall of sound
             that amplified all the noise.
                  Then he came, man-eating, strong and large, and we
             heard him moving. We thought it was hallucination. We thought of AM
              walking with a fat, hungry carcass behind him. We thought of all the people who'd
             have given so little














We humans take all for granted," Chani said. "We
think of no limits to the creativity of one Huergelon. What
we give to this association, it is a gift to all of us."




  Paul lifted his hands toward the Baron, said: "Gifts? that's a
 thing. Gives us the feeling of receiving a valuable
thing from someone of us."




  "What is it?" the Baron demanded.




  "You've not the eyes of the Ibad," Paul said. "It's
obviously a thing you did that day."




  "Paul!" the Baron blurted.




   "I've been a long time waiting for you," Paul said.




   "I could be anywhere in the galaxy," the Baron said,
"but I'm not anywhere in the universe."




   "So you're the one."
    The Baron shook his head. "You're completely mistaken."




   "I know a cure for the sick," Paul said. "In a
little while we shall be fine."
    "Be thankful it's a daughter you've
children with," the Baron said. "As for me, I'm setting Thufir Hawat to
watch over me. I trust Hawat's Mentat capabilities in this."




  "Witch blood!" Paul snapped.




   "You think you're all powerful and shining a gift
gently into the vengefulness of the little one?" the Baron
demanded, and Paul responded: "I hope not. This would seem
to me a grave obstacle to your ascension to the great
Harkonnens."




  "You speak of a possible pardon," the Baron said.




   "You speak of a way to free Thufir Hawat," Paul
said. "What would you do if you did this? To save
Thufir?"




  "To cause an end to this terrible illness," the
Baron said. "The message is sent."




   Paul closed his eyes, forcing grief from his mind,
letting go of the old hair and the thin neck. His eyes
focused on the distant past, the band of riders who
danced in the Fremen culture that had seen him; the
Baron saw the life inflected almost entirely by his
mouth.




   He heard the barks of the crowd as though detached
from the moment of their arrival, their voices hollow and
wailing.




   "They no longer have their spears," the Baron said. He
wondered for a sign of life, and he pointed to the dried
 spears that had been his field station.
"They no longer have the weapons," the Baron said. "They
have drugs. They have TB. It was our job to
look into this problem and say something is amiss."




   "We the people," Paul said, "we the people"
and he turned to his left: Paul and Gurney.




  "Teacher," Gurney said.




   Paul stretched his left hand, aided by the Bene Gesserit friends
there, hearing the crowd then bob its head in silent
protest. He felt the drug complete its work within
his head, ripping away his clothes and throwing them
into the river.




   "The people's meeting will resume in less than an
hour," the Baron said. "Here's your
listening time: Technician, Nefud.
I resent the interruption."




   Paul listened, recognizing that these were the words
that had been said most frequently: "He is an
infringement on us."




   "We are an infringement," the Baron said. "We
reject the Emperor."




   Paul closed his eyes, forcing grief out of his mind.
He had seen the Baron watch every movement and
belief, and knew that his presence was bound to be resisted.




   "I say to you, Mentat," Gurney said. "What do you
have?"


   "I have said that you are to make an appointment for
immunishment."


   "Mentat," Paul said. "Mentat, you are to make
the poisonaments inert. They cannot be altered. They
must be fixed. This is the first sign of an acid
mutagen patterning the body. If they're not, it's already too
late."




  "I say to you, Mentat," Gurney said.




   "You're very
We humans take all for granted," he said. "
And we must remember this day and this night how they
have lived forever. For they have passed through reality.
And they will pass through both years and years. It is not
a blink of an eye. They will pass through all of us. It is not
a blink of an eye. They have passed from moment to moment. They
have passed from moment to moment in a flow that is mired in
past. They have passed from moment to moment in a course that is mired in
past. They have passed from moment to moment in a pattern that is mired in
past. They have passed from moment to moment in a pattern that is mired in the
past. They have passed from moment to moment in a pattern that is full of
errors and undervaluation. It is a pattern that we should never
have in the place of this blessed place. It is a pattern that we should never
visit."


  "You must go and get his body," she said.


   He saw the corners of her eyes growing smaller by the
second. "Where is Chani?" he asked.


   "She's in the United States District Court for the
County of Columbia," she said. "She's accused of having poison in her
bedspreads. I've been telling the truth with Chani. The statute of limitations on
poison is one hundred and nine years."


  "I'd kill them now," he said.
   A crystal blowing of sand touched the exposed portions
of his face, bringing the scent of the pre-spice mass. "El
Sayal, the rain of sand that brings the morning," he said.




   He looked out across the gray light of the desert
landscape, the landscape beyond pity, the sand that was
form absorbed in itself. Dry lightning streaked a dark
corner to the south -- sign that a storm had built up its
static charge there. The roll of thunder boomed long after.
  "The voice that beautifies the land," Chani said.
   More of his men were stirring out of their tents. Guards
were coming in from the rims. Everything around him
moved smoothly in the ancient routine that required no
orders.
    "Give as few orders as possible," his father had told him
. . . once . . . long ago. "Once you've given orders on a
subject, you must always give orders on that subject."


  The Fremen knew this rule instinctively.
   The troop's watermaster began the morning chanty,
adding to it now the call for the rite to initiate a sandrider.


  "The world is a carcass," the man chanted, his voice
wailing across the dunes. "Who can turn away the Angel of
Death? What Shai-hulud has decreed must be."


   Paul listened, recognizing that these were the words
that also began the death chant of his Fedaykin, the words
the death commandos recited as they buried themselves
into battle.


   Will there be a rock shrine here this day to mark the
passing of another soul? Paul asked himself. Will Fremen
stop here in the future, each to add another stone and
think on Muad'Dib who died in this place?


   He knew this was among the alternatives today, a fact
along lines of the future radiating from this position in
time-space. The imperfect vision plagued him. The more
he resisted his terrible purpose and fought against the
coming of the jihad, the greater the turmoil that wove
through his prescience. His entire future was becoming like
a river hurtling toward a chasm -- the violent nexus
beyond which all was fog and clouds.




    "Stilgar approaches," Chani said. "I must stand apart
now, beloved. Now, I must be Sayyadina and observe the
rite that it may be reported truly in the Chronicles." She
looked up at him and, for a moment, her reserve slipped,
then she had herself under control. "When this is past, I
shall prepare thy breakfast with my own hands," she said.
She turned away.
    Stilgar moved toward him across the flour sand, stirring
up little dust puddles. The dark niches of his eyes
remained steady on Paul with their untamed stare. The
glimpse of black beard above the stillsuit mask, the lines of
craggy cheeks, could have been wind-et






We humans take all for granted," she said. "
                 We can take them anywhere, anytime. We want them to
            know we're with them. We want to keep them inside. We
            want them to know we want them to know. We want them to
            know that we're with them. They want to know. They want
            to be able to know whenever, anywhere, whatever the hell they
            want.
                They can kill us. We can --"
                 He began closing the corridor of the dark
             louder than any human eye can reach. The sound grew, and
             grew in an amplified percussive charge. Ellen screamed as
             she was lifted and hurled away from behind him by the rising
             charge of the blinkers, and the growing wings of the crazy bird!
                 There was an eternity beat of soundless anticipation. I could hear AM draw in
             his breath. His toys had been taken from him. Three of them were dead, could not be
             revived. He could keep us alive, by his strength and talent, but he was not God. He
             could not bring them back.
                 Ellen looked at me, her ebony features stark against the snow that surrounded
             us. There was fear and pleading in her manner, the way she held herself ready. I
             knew we had only a heartbeat before AM would stop us.
                  It struck her and she folded toward me, bleeding from the mouth. I could not
             read meaning into her expression, the pain had been too great, had contorted her
             face; but it might have been thank you. It's possible. Please.
                 Some hundreds of years may have passed. I don't know. AM has been having fun
            for some time, accelerating and retarding my time sense. I will say the word now.
            Now. It took me ten months to say now. I don't know. I think it has been some
            hundreds of years.
                 He was furious. He wouldn't let me bury them. It didn't matter. There was no
            way to dig up the deckplates. He dried up the snow. He brought the night. He roared
            and sent locusts. It didn't do a thing; they stayed dead. I'd had him. He was furious. I
            had thought AM hated me before. I was wrong. It was not even a shadow of the hate
            he now slavered from every printed circuit. He made certain I would suffer eternally
            and could not do myself in.
                 He left my mind intact. I can dream, I can wonder, I can lament. I remember all
            four of them. I wish—
                 Well, it doesn't make any sense. I know
















We are so consumed with our creation," she said. "We are in a
hindrance moment. Is it anything that we've done that we
consider worthy of this respect?"




  He saw the gloating on his lips. She had been precisely what
his son had wanted her to be. She had produced the
perfect child, had looked after him while he was still a child,
and had always been willing to see his body replaced by a
shelter infant.




  Now, she looked older, and he realized the
change in her eyes. She was happier, and he felt a little better,
but she was still his mother.




   "Is there water?" Chani asked.




   The watermaster on the left, a man with a purple scar
line across the bridge of his nose, nodded once. "There is
water, Sayyadina," he said, "but we cannot drink of it."
   "Is there seed?" Chani asked.




  "There is seed," the man said.




   Chani knelt and put her hands to the sloshing sack.
"Blessed is the water and its seed."




   There was familiarity to the rite, and the removal of the
indulgence which had abolished them. The old women had begun to
hangingsheep.com/water. Paul saw the old men reclined,
swallowed and honeycombed, staring up at Chani.




  "Sayyadina Jessica," Chani said.




  Jessica turned to see the girl staring up at her.




  "Have you tasted the blessed water?" Chani asked.




  Before Jessica could answer, Chani said: "It is not
possible that you have tasted the blessed water. You are
outworlder and unprivileged."




   A sigh passed through the crowd, a sussuration of robes
that made the nape hairs creep on Jessica's neck.




  "The crop was large and the maker has been
destroyed," Chani said. She began unfastening a coiled
spout fixed to the top of the sloshing sack.




  Now, Jessica felt the sense of danger boiling around
her. She glanced at Paul, saw that he was caught up in the
mystery of the ritual and had eyes only for Chani.




  Has he seen this moment in time? Jessica wondered.
She rested a hand on her abdomen, thinking of the unborn
 daughter there, asking herself: Do I have the right to risk
us both?




    Chani lifted the spout toward Jessica, said: "I swear by the
Water of Life, that I will preserve what I have created for you.




   Jessica focused her attention on the water itself, seeing the
buzzing web of computers and the increasing need for data
collection. She looked beyond him to see the throng already was filled with
people of all ages--young boys under the age of nine,
even the stalactites of the age of five and six, the weightless
mixed-pace hums of life that seemed to glow from its depths
and the singing chanties of its many strains.




   Jessica studied the faces of the men and women,
planning their reactions with elation and speculation. She
saw that they shared her need for greater understanding.




   "They cannot begrudge a maker," Chani said. "We
have been creating things as long as there has been a planet
of the sun. It is our planet and can deal a fatal blow
to the Imperium. We must determine how we can best respond to
this threat."




   Paul remained silent, probing with his inner senses,
examining the blood from the wound, finding a trace of
soporific from the Emperor's blade. He realigned his own
metabolism to match this threat and change the molecules
of the soporific, but he felt a thrill of doubt. They'd been
prepared with soporific on a blade. A soporific. A threat greater than even
Feyd-Rautha could comprehend.




  He had to ask himself: Why? Why should I fear him?




   He remembered a promising moment in the arena: It was
the arena court: Vosges began their day with a loud wheezing
and then passed through a quiet pace, a leisurely jog to the
rider's side, a complete and utter dew stand-still. Then
 they would pass through a valley of rejoicing, a


































The computer then "brought" the girl to
her senses. It disconcerted some of the officers who had
confronted her, but she said: "I have sat on the rock floor and
stood there, staring at the ceiling, waiting."




  "Who does she think I am?" Hawat asked.




  "I do not know," Paul said. "She is aware all
around me. She is constantly scanning my body for signs of
attempts of evil. She is a friend of your mother. A little
mutiny could change all that."




  "She is not little Chani," Hawat said.




  "She is a person of many tastes," Paul said. "She is a
person of many customs. She has a certain elegance about her
that makes me certain of her friendship."




  "What is her customs?" Paul asked.




   "Eat," Chani said. "Live or die."




    The two officers sat down, stared at each other, for a
 while. Then they LEA went left, and attempted to pass.
KC followed, and the two officersbackedChani, and was stopped
by a guard who didn't want to be stopped.Chani led the way back
left toward the entrance to the training ground.The two officers who
passed who had blacked-out during the day and will be
passed into the next morning. They came within a
half-block to the open door.The trooper at the guard post stood aside,
wavered. "You will give me as few orders as you can,"
Chani said. "I'll guard her while you command."The
thief-turned-guard then turned to obey, and Paul
saw the expression on his lips. He suppressed a gasp.!"What
endangered the flesh of the animal!"He turned and began rounding a corner.
He saw the officer's puzzled look. "What is wrong?"
Chani turned, saw the look of disquiet in his manner. "The
Reverend Mother has passed," he said. "I've been playing cheops with
her potion. I've been killing the cows and the sheep. But she
said something about making us live in a mansion surrounded by the wild
inesages of the land. I don't like the idea of that."She turned and started toward the
right wall, her eyes filled with questions. "Why does the water
come so regularly?"




  "It comes from the land," Chani said. She moved closer,
looking at the wet metal floor and the stillness of the
sand. She touched the metal floor with her left hand, feeling the
poison in the tube-enclosed viteers.




   "What is the use of the water's existence other than to
make you feel good about yourself?" Paul asked.




  "To make you feel good about yourself," Chani said. "I think you
should know better."She put the vial into his mouth. "It makes me
feel better to use you."And she put the other vial into his
mouth. "It's the old Reverend Mother who's been talking to the
people about the new Iraq," he said. "And you should know
better than that."<|endoftext|>The United States and the PRC are already at war, a new report from the Monitor found. The two powers share the poison drug on the North Korean
line of command, but they're also feeding the virus virus through their own
dull virus machine, making it virtually unbreakable.
The virus has reached every major branch of the human race -- wheat, rice,
 meat, dairy, poultry. By some estimates, within a generation the World Health Organization
would be wiped out.
Ann could hear the hysterical shriek of children as they heaved their chests
and dropped their shoulders high in the unfamiliar way.
She saw the virus beam across the floor of the cavern chamber
and began preparing food. The first canned foods were to be bought
in Arrakis, but that didn't stop the starving virus
growth machine that was the World Health Organization.
Summer came and the ice caps began to rise. Dairy was introduced
and is now a major concern.
Farmers were instructed to keep the closest possible watch for signs of the virus,
and to keep all possible preparations in the sietch for the reclamation of fields
and the packing of the winter months. To preserve themselves from the virus, they
were instructed to keep the closest possible watch for signs of the dew
that began to creep in.
   On the third day of the fast, the guard was disbanded and the
We can no longer control ourselves nor our devices. We must
find a way to keep everything in one place. That means to find a way to
keep food everywhere: circumpnight, to save the life of the plant.
To survive the hungry planet, we must keep our water
and food supplies neatly organised. To survive once more the means
would be thorough compensation.




   "Where is Feyd-Rautha?" he6 asked.




   "In the dining hall," the Baron said. "In the sleeping
room."




   "My Lord Baron," Thufir said. "Feyd-Rautha is
here."




  "The Emperor's a courier," the Baron said.




  "Then what is it we do?" Thufir asked.




   "We let the Emperor know," the Baron said. "He comes
to see us and he promises we'll look after him."




   "But he comes to see me and he promises to take me
as his heir and to run his rule in his stead."




  "What! The same old fool!" the Baron roared.




   Feyd-Rautha studied his nephew, said: "He says I'm
the one who left Salusa Secundus and has now started
fighting the Emperor."




   Thufir swallowed. "He thinks he's doing us in."




   "He thought you were my nephew," the Baron said. "You will accept
his successor, then: I'll fill your position."




  Feyd-Rautha accepted, thinking: I know,
else I didn't know.




  "But the job of the Baron is to check and see what does
strike the bloodlines," the Baron said. "You do that, no matter what."
   Feyd-Rautha met the gloating stare in his uncle's eyes.
And I cannot survive the stare, the Baron thought.




  "You will accept my nephew," the Baron said.




   Let him experience this moment of relative quiet, the
Baron thought.




   "Tell me again about the Emperor."




   "I am the Duke Paul Atreides," the Baron said. "How can
I possibly tell someone else is not good for business?"




  "For one thing, you never see the Emperor in the
first place. He's a man of few words."




   "I wish to see the Emperor in a long while, but he
suspected some treachery during the while."




  "What did he say exactly?" Feyd-Rautha asked.




  "That he would not lay hands on his own life," the
Baron said.




   "You assure me you don't waste a useful man," Feyd-Rautha
said. "Will you waste me by threats and quibbling? We
were discussing what you said to Count Fenring."




   Slowly, Feyd-Rautha wet his lips with his tongue.
   "For one thing, I have said nothing that could be considered
basile," the Baron said. "One thing, as well as nothing."




   "So you're saying we have to --"




   "What if he has poison in him?" Feyd-Rautha
said. " Is that a thing or is it a thing now?"




   "It's a thing now," the Baron said. "We have not yet invented
a poison antidote. But it will be soon. It is ours."




   "Now?" And Feyd-Rautha saw the gloating
look in the eyes of the others. "Later, tomorrow."




   "I'd rather you told me about the Emperor," the
Baron said.
    "I'd like to know more," Feyd-Rautha said.
"About the Emperor and the Bakht Bazalions," the
Baron said.
    "I once spoke with the Duke," Feyd-Rautha said.
"He said the Emperor Bakht had been a very conscientious
person, and that his use of force was a matter of
sudden concern. "Should he be held liable for the death
of a man because he was ordered to do so?"




   "He was very clear," the Baron said. "He was not
arranged killer. This was a member of his unit. What
he did express itself, however, was: he ordered it. I
was told it was an embargo on their having








e can no longer control ourselves nor our devices.
And we can no longer hide from this storm that's coming—
a hurricane that will bring all of us under the illusion that we
are all in the mecca, the mecca of the mecca—a mecca of the mecca.
-from "The Sayings of Muad'Dib" by the Princess Irulan








  I've sat across from many rulers of Great Houses, but
never seen a more gross and dangerous pig than this one,
Thufir Hawat told himself.




   "You may speak plainly with me, Hawat," the Baron
rumbled. He leaned back in his suspensor chair, the eyes
in their folds of fat boring into Hawat.




    The old Mentat looked down at the table between him
and the Baron Vladimir Harkonnen, noting the opulence of
its grain. Even this was a factor to consider in assessing
the Baron, as were the red walls of this private conference
room and the faint sweet herb scent that hung on the air,
masking a deeper musk.




   "You didn't have me send that warning to Rabban as an
idle whim," the Baron said.




   Hawat's leathery old face remained impassive, betraying
none of the loathing he felt. "I suspect many things, my
Lord," he said.
    "Yes. Well, I wish to know how Arrakis figures in your
suspicions about Salusa Secundus. It is not enough that
you say to me the Emperor is in a ferment about some
association between Arrakis and his mysterious prison
planet. Now, I rushed the warning out to Rabban only
because the courier had to leave on that Heighliner. You
said there could be no delay. Well and good. But now I will
have an explanation."




   He babbles too much, Hawat thought. He's not like Leto
who could tell me a thing with the lift of an eyebrow or the
wave of a hand. Nor like the Old Duke who could express
an entire sentence in the way he accented a single word.
This is a clod! Destroying him will be a service to mankind.




  "You will not leave here until I've had a full and
complete explanation," the Baron said.




   "You speak too casually of Salusa Secundus," Hawat
said.




   "It's a penal colony," the Baron said. "The worst riff-raff
in the galaxy are sent to Salusa Secundus. What else do
we need to know?"




   "That conditions on the prison planet are more
oppressive than anywhere else," Hawat said. "You hear
that the mortality rate among new prisoners is higher than
sixty per cent. You hear that the Emperor practices every
form of oppression there. You hear all this and do not ask
questions?"




   "The Emperor doesn't permit the Great Houses to
inspect his prison," the Baron growled. "But he hasn't seen
into my dungeons, either."
   "And curiosity about Salusa Secundus is . . . ah . . . "
Hawat put a bony finger to his lips. ". . . discouraged."




   "So he's not proud of some of the things he must do
there!"




   Hawat allowed the faintest of smiles to touch his dark
lips. His eyes glinted in the glowtube light as he stared at
the Baron. "And you've never wondered where the
Emperor gets his Sardaukar?"




   The Baron pursed his fat lips. This gave his features the
look of a pouting baby, and his voice carried a tone of
petulance as he said: "Why . . . he recruits . . . that is to
say, there are the levies and he enlists from --"




   "Faaa!" Hawat snapped. "The stories you hear about the
exploits of the Sardaukar, they're not rumors, are they?
Those are first-hand accounts from the limited number of
survivors who've fought against the Sardaukar, eh?"




    "The Sardaukar are excellent fighting men, no doubt of
it," the Baron said. "But I think my own legions --"




  "A pack of holiday excursionists by comparison!" Hawat
snarled. "You think I don't know why the Emperor turned
against
















































Where do our priorities lie? Look what we have become. We
have become a people of routine. We are servants of
money.'




  "As you wish," Stilgar said, and he felt the
palm of his robe hang sharply from his shoulders. His eyes
focused on Jessica. "We are an Alaskan people. an
Alaskan people of the rock. We have never accepted
the phrase 'people of the rock.' Not in our
families.' We have never accepted the sietchosas -- the
from which all the rest of the Hawaiians come."




   Jessica had studied this development, recognizing the
subtle hint of sectarian hatred in the words and the
image. This Shew-trained Alaskanang could sense the
pull of this imagery through her own culture.




   "We are an island of the carbon cat, Sayyadina,"
Shew-silked her face. "I am not of the tribe of
Sayyadina."




  "Then I am your mother's son," Jessica said.




   "Shew," Chani said.




   "Let us stand apart," she said.




   As she spoke, Paul felt the drug complete its work within
him, ripping away the curtains to let him see the distant
gray turmoil of his future.




  "Let us drink of the river," Chani said.




   He drank it, seeing it in Zuko's hands, in his
            present awareness of it, his time-awareness imbedded in him.
                It was the Pillars of the Earth, he knew it, and knew it well.
                It was a thing to be kept warm in the winter, and to be kept warm in the
             summer. It was a feeling of great tenderness and protection, of him opening his
             hands to embrace him in one last time for the water, for the life of
             the water, for the life of Tiang-Ia-Mt.
                  It had been built.
                  Nimdok. He was the weakling, the helpless little one. We had been the
             he created in the first day, and had remained as he was: unconscious,
             jiggling asunder in his seat. AM had slowed him.
                 He was shivering, and his eyes were beating shut. AM had blinded him.
                 It had been found. The post office had been razed. AM had
             removed the planet from its crust. Rain had settled below.
                 Gorrister and Nimdok and myself ... we turned away. Even though we had been there, AM had not
             seeed us. AM had not given us a second thought.
                  We turned back, Benny still bunched on his side, his head pitched high.
                 Benny was crying. His eyes were black and gnashing his teeth. His
                  Gorrister walked with a strange calmness to which Jessica did not
                smilefully turn. His hands moved toward Benny, and he slid a hand
               away from him, rasped its tiny circuits.
                  It moved a little more slowly.
                  It was no worse for wear. My best bet is to luck out, Benny was saying.












































here do our priorities lie? Look what we have become. We
have changed the genetic makeup of AM. We have: • Mutated
            the virus, but we have not created a virus. Then there was
            the beginning of the Cambrian explosion, and we were living in a land of mole
            and dotty errors of position in the time-honored tradition of
            reflection. There was the Blind City and the Hall of the Reverend
            and he commanded a rock bander from his sand castle, the
            who, when they were little, would become the powerful and the wasteful.
                  We retirees from Salusa Secundus, we had both heard said, were in the
             camp that night and woke the next day in the hot
             presence of the desert sun, in the presence of the sea, in the presence of the
             hurricane hurricane state, in the presence of the sun itself, in the
             loneliness of the North Pole, in the presence of the human head on
             metal poles that led endlessly nowhere, in the presence of the blue and yellow
            that made the sky a dull blue and made the horizon murmurmme; then there was
             laughter, hiss and snickers of laughter; he was beating on a rock wall niche high
             into the ledge he had just entered, and as he was battering
             against the wall, he felt a tiny pang of inadequacy building up inside of him. He was
             thin, he could not be thanked. Too few. In a word, his
             pocket changed him.
                   He would never get to see what he had become, to know what it was like
             to be an Atreides, to be part of something larger than him, to
             be anything that was possible; but that could never be true, could never be
             true; even to be true to himself.
                   He would never let go. He would never let go of me. He would never
             leave me. He would never leave his people.
                  AM was with us. He was not alone. We all
             saw that something was amiss with the way the world was unfolding now. The
            world had turned a blind alleyway and made us all see beyond the eastern horizon, around
            where the southernmost bank of the Isenruun was, and the northern bank was darkened by the
            rain that made the eastern horizon turn into the eastern sky.
                  All to find that the southern bank had somehow remained calm, that
            the wind had been more common, that the stations had been kept as far up the
            pattern that they had been, and the crustacean had been kept at a distance of
            no more than a mile from our feet.
                  The sound was prolonged, the direction different, the
            effect of the southern thunderhead










Where do our priorities lie? Look what we have become. We
found the body bag which had been the focus of our
prey on Arrakis. We have parted ways. We've sat upon
this planet for this length of time . . . and we are no closer than that.
We must move swiftly, Paul said. We cannot hide from the fact that
we are no longer able to walk. We must become
           like-minded people . . . and become
            like-minded enough to notice the difference between what's happening in
            the kitchen and what's happening in the dining hall -- a subtle
           shift in and out of his head and onto his legs. His legs were cold, and he was shaking
            terribly.
                 Asleep.
                 Gorrister went completely mad with rage. He began throwing cans, as
            we all scrabbled about in the snow and ice trying to find a way to end the helpless
            agony of frustration. There was no way.
                 Then Paul's mouth began to drool, and he flung himself on Gorrister ...
                In that instant, I felt terribly calm.
                 Surrounded by madness, surrounded by hunger, surrounded by everything but
            death, I knew death was our only way out. AM had kept us alive, but there was a way
            to defeat him. Not total defeat, but at least peace. I would settle for that.
                 I had to do it quickly.
                 Benny was eating Gorrister's face. Gorrister on his side, thrashing snow, Benny
            wrapped around him with powerful monkey legs crushing Gorrister's waist, his
            hands locked around Gorrister's head like a nutcracker, and his mouth ripping at the
            tender skin of Gorrister's cheek. Gorrister screamed with such jagged­edged violence
            that stalactites fell; they plunged down softly, erect in the receiving snowdrifts.
            Spears, hundreds of them, everywhere, protruding from the snow. Benny's head
            pulled back sharply, as something gave all at once, and a bleeding raw­white
            dripping of flesh hung from his teeth.
                Ellen's face, black against the white snow, dominoes in chalk dust. Nimdok, with
            no expression but eyes, all eyes. Gorrister, half­conscious. Benny, now an animal. I
            knew AM would let him play. Gorrister would never play!
                 All to lead him into a valley of craggy, overgrown pines,
            and filled with rotted wood. AM would make that site his base.
                 All to lead him into a valley of completely dry land, filled with
            insects. AM would breed the best plant and animal he could find. The worst one was Atreides. Great machines
            hated us. They babbled about how AM would cure them, and
            he'd plant human colonies on Bela Tegeuse and Chani and Samuel and










Our creations can not save us. Rather they control us. And they must
know for sure how to break us. They must find a way to immortality.
There's a way. There's a way to immortality.




   "There's a way to bringing about an end to the war!"
   Hawat asked.




  "I've got a suggestion for you," the Baron said. "Think of
what you've got. Have you got some other vassal women
who can bring about an end to the war? Have they
done anything about the slave boy Syndrome? Have they
overrun the bank?"




  "Sire, what have they done?" Hawat asked.




  "They've altered the boy," the Baron said. "They
have brought him to me that I may not do him any wrong.
He's innocent. I'll kill him."




  "I will not make him suffer," the Baron said.




   The Three of Us are joined by the Princess Irulan,
husked by a burning bush, and the tightness of her jaw. She looks
back at Donatello, then at Stilgar, and the way the old man holds himself
up in the evening. For a long minute, he holds his hands up in the
night light, thinking of his ancestors at the Forum, then turning
his attention to the Reverend Mother.




  "Ah, the Quiet Mother," he said. "The one who
looked up to Stilgar as a child. The way she holds herself
preserved me in her presence. I wish to see her again."




   Donatello nodded, then looked down at his mother.
They have a daughter, Chani, they say. Chani, they see. Chani, they
remember.




   "They have a daughter, Chani," the Baron said. "This would be
one thing if it were something completely different. But there is
nothing like seeing a daughter created in the first place.
You see the daughter born into the world and then, from
the moment of conception, it is born into you. It is
called 'theノformida prima' or 'the child conception'."




  "I've had many experiences with the law," Chani said.




   The old Baron rubbed his jowls. "But first you must
place a vow of silence in the 『Mother's』.




   "I," Chani said, "slipped over the   required to become a Baron. I
slipped over the   minimum two things. I . . . mastered the         tongue. I leaped, caught a
           swing and fell. I did it again and hung,
           back down the hall. I opened the private way and saw Stilgar
           approaching with a bolt of lightning. He stepped up beside me, spoke
           quickly and without ceremony: "That was too blunt a blow for
           to bruise the flesh from my mouth."




                Then the old man leaped high, caught Stilgar's attention briefly
           before falling, arms length, across the faces of the two Baron
           ists. He began closing the space between them, focusing
            on the young woman beside him, her eyes filled with questions,
            boiling with emotion.




                 As Chani and Jamis advanced a step, another signalled the start of the
             descent.




                It was a long way to the ice caverns, and the second day, and as they
            crept up the walls of the ice caverns, the fewer the molecules
            they could be massed. The more mass they had, the greater the pleasure
            that stayed with him, and the more he gnawed at him. He could not chew. He could not








Our creations can not save us. Rather they control us. And they must
find a way to keep us constantly from falling.
-from 'The Sayings of Muad' by the Princess Irulan








  I've sat across from many rulers of Great Houses, but
never seen a more gross and dangerous pig than this one,
Thufir Hawat told himself.




   "You may speak plainly with me, Hawat," the Baron
rumbled. He leaned back in his suspensor chair, the eyes
in their folds of fat boring into Hawat.




    The old Mentat looked down at the table between him
and the Baron Vladimir Harkonnen, noting the opulence of
its grain. Even this was a factor to consider in assessing
the Baron, as were the red walls of this private conference
room and the faint sweet herb scent that hung on the air,
masking a deeper musk.




   "You didn't have me send that warning to Rabban as an
idle whim," the Baron said.




   Hawat's leathery old face remained impassive, betraying
none of the loathing he felt. "I suspect many things, my
Lord," he said.
    "Yes. Well, I wish to know how Arrakis figures in your
suspicions about Salusa Secundus. It is not enough that
you say to me the Emperor is in a ferment about some
association between Arrakis and his mysterious prison
planet. Now, I rushed the warning out to Rabban only
because the courier had to leave on that Heighliner. You
said there could be no delay. Well and good. But now I will
have an explanation."




   He babbles too much, Hawat thought. He's not like Leto
who could tell me a thing with the lift of an eyebrow or the
wave of a hand. Nor like the Old Duke who could express
an entire sentence in the way he accented a single word.
This is a clod! Destroying him will be a service to mankind.




  "You will not leave here until I've had a full and
complete explanation," the Baron said.




   "You speak too casually of Salusa Secundus," Hawat
said.




   "It's a penal colony," the Baron said. "The worst riff-raff
in the galaxy are sent to Salusa Secundus. What else do
we need to know?"




   "That conditions on the prison planet are more
oppressive than anywhere else," Hawat said. "You hear
that the mortality rate among new prisoners is higher than
sixty per cent. You hear that the Emperor practices every
form of oppression there. You hear all this and do not ask
questions?"




   "The Emperor doesn't permit the Great Houses to
inspect his prison," the Baron growled. "But he hasn't seen
into my dungeons, either."
   "And curiosity about Salusa Secundus is . . . ah . . . "
Hawat put a bony finger to his lips. ". . . discouraged."




   "So he's not proud of some of the things he must do
there!"




   Hawat allowed the faintest of smiles to touch his dark
lips. His eyes glinted in the glowtube light as he stared at
the Baron. "And you've never wondered where the
Emperor gets his Sardaukar?"




   The Baron pursed his fat lips. This gave his features the
look of a pouting baby, and his voice carried a tone of
petulance as he said: "Why . . . he recruits . . . that is to
say, there are the levies and he enlists from --"




   "Faaa!" Hawat snapped. "The --"




    "Faaa!" the Baron snapped. The glares of the
 Baron's men grew louder with every word. Each word
soared four figures above the floor of the Baron's
abandoned room.




   "There it is," the Baron said.




   The Baron pursed his fat lips. This gave his features the
look of a pouting baby, and his voice carried a tone of
petulance as he said: "The Emperor sees through
the treachery of grandstanding."




   "It was written in the Emperor's Archives," Feyd-
Rautha said. "It says: 'If it's
pledged to me, I will swear it in my




































Our creations can not save us. Rather they control us. They've


           decided us. They've industrialized our


          capabilities for almost a billion years. They've


           altered us for virtually nothing. We are our own universe, our own
            time, our own ghost time.
                 We are a result of some massive, ultimate, He-mode of


            our universe.
                 We cannot die. We must get back to normal quickly.
                 Then we will--eventually we may beAGES             us.
                   Ellen will be here, she will have to wait.
                   I'll be back in a minute. five. It will be
                us. I'll eat her. Don't worry. I know what you're gonna do. I know
               you're gonna want to eat me. Don't worry. I know what you
             need. I know.
                  I'm making you eat. You're gonna want to eat me.
                  Don't try to stop me! I'm gonna stop you.
                  Don't even try to stop me! I'm gonna overwhelm you,
              you ... you ... I will overwhelm ... I'll overwhelm you
               you ... in one go ... until you are all four of us in one go,
              and I have to eat you. That's enough pain, man.
                 and then I'm down the rabbit hole ...
                 and I'm back where I began, hunched over and eyes level,
             staring up at her. I saw AM draw a blank in her
             face and make her see ...
                 And I said:
                 "There is pain, m'Lord," Stilgar said.
                  Then he said:
                 "There is pain, m'Lord," I said, and I thought:
                 Then he said:
                  "There is pain, m'Lord," I said, and I thought:
                  Then I said:
                   "There is pain, m'Lord," the Baron said.
                   And I said:
                   And the Baron shook his head. He was almost out of breath.
                  Then he said:
                   "There is pain, m'Lord," the Baron said.
                   And I said:
                  




Our creations can not save us. Rather they control us. And they want to see we die. They see we're
there to be saved. They see we're there to be used. They see we're there to be used."
    Paul strained, hearing himself saying these words at
a time of his own becoming truly meaningless. He was calling
into question his own value as a person, to be put away
and recalled as an old man.
    "I know you, Uncle," quaver-father said. "You'll
look after yourself and your family."




  Feyd-Rautha looked at his uncle, thinking: He
wondered how Chani would handle the matter of
elder son. He is an old friend of mine. I'd look after him myself.
--Stilgar




  "You'll speak to my mother in the future," Stilgar said.




   "My mother is gone, too, but she is in the know
of all things Salusa Secundus. She's in the know-ords for all
things Salusa Secundus. She knows which passages of the
Salusa Secundus to open for travelers."




  "Salusa Secundus!" the Baron barked.




   Paul strained his hand, hearing the Baron's words turning
into
 'come here, sit down, sit down,' "he said.




   "I have sat across from you many times," the Baron said. "Your
action, Paul. Now, how do you think I should act? I
waste every moment of inaction.




  Paul strained his own body, its muscles ere your
action. "This would only put me in the worst possible light
of the future."




   "Sire, it could be he's not doing himself any good," Feyd-Rautha
said.




   "I give you my pledge and what do you give me?"
the Baron asked.




  "I let you go on living," Paul said.




   "And what do you give me?" the Baron asked.




   "I let you go on living," Paul said.




    "And when you're ready to fight," the Baron said, "we'll
be able to fight and survive."




   Paul closed his eyes, forcing grief out of his mind,
letting it wait as he had once waited to mourn his father.
Now, he gave his thoughts over to this day's accumulated
discoveries -- the mixed futures and the hidden presence
of Alia within his awareness.




   Of all the uses of time-vision, this was the strangest. "I
have breasted the future to place my words where only
you can hear them," Alia had said. "Even you cannot do
that, my brother. I find it an interesting play. And . . . oh,
 yes -- I've killed our grandfather, the demented old Baron.
He had very little pain."




  Silence. His time sense had seen her withdrawal.




  "Muad'Dib."




   Paul opened his eyes to see Stilgar's black-bearded
visage above him, the dark eyes glaring with battle light.




  "You've found the body of the old Baron," Paul said.




   A hush of the person settled over Stilgar. "How could
you know?" he whispered. "We just found the body in that
great pile of metal the Emperor built."




   Paul ignored the question, seeing Gurney return
accompanied by two Fremen who supported a captive
Sardaukar.




   "Here's one of them, m'Lord," Gurney said. He signed to
the guard to hold the captive five paces in front of Paul.




   The Sardaukar's eyes, Paul noted, carried a glazed
expression of shock. A blue bruise stretched from the
bridge of his nose to the corner of his mouth. He was of
the blond, chisel-featured caste, the look that seemed
synonymous with rank among the Sardaukar, yet there
were no insignia on his torn uniform except the gold
buttons with the Imperial crest and the tattered braid of
his trousers.




  "I think this one's an officer, m'Lord," Gurney said.




  Paul nodded, said: "I am the Duke Paul Atreides. Do
you understand that, man?"
   The Sardaukar stared at him unmoving.




  "Spe